A genome is the complete set of genetic information in an organism. A persons genes can determine a lot about a person. According to cdc.gov genes can influence your physical traits, how your body functions and in some cases, genes can increase the chance of developing certain inherited disease as well as potentially how your body responds to health challenges, medical treatments or lifestyle choice.

When reflecting on the question "are you defined by your genome?" it becomes clear that genetics is only the piece of a bigger puzzle. While genetics play a huge role and sets the foundation, there are other forces that shape who we are. Who we are can be shaped by the environment we live in, the things we go through and the choices we end up making. 

As people our genetic makeup has to constantly interact with the world around us. Many factors can influence how our genes are ultimately expressed and who we become. As a public health major, we talk a lot about social determinants. According to Healthy People 2030, social determinants of health are the personal, social and environmental things that shape your health and well being. This includes access to quality education, food, healthcare, economic stability and safe neighborhoods. These factors can shape someone’s opportunities and ultimately risks that they will face. More often then not, these factors have a larger influence on health For example, A person growing up in a supportive community with access to food and education will have a better quality of life than someone who lives in poverty and experiences discrimination. These social factors interact with a persons genetics in many ways, showing that there more to just a genome. 

A persons culture can also heavily influence them. It can influence a persons world view according to mypersonality.net. For example, a culture can encourage modesty therefore a person of this culture is more likely to be reserved. Excluding culture, no one is bound to go through the same things. Twins in the same environment and culture can still be drastically different. 

People grow and because of many factors, can end up totally different. People have the ability to make choices that will determine who they are. In the end, While a genome can totally influence factors of a person, the real thing that determines who they are is a combination of their experiences, choices environment, and the social world around them. 
